# Fleeing For Their Lives:
## Reconsidering How Americans View Immigrants’ Reasons for Migrating

As people across the globe continue to flee from their home countries at accelerating rates (UNHCR, 2019), it is increasingly important to understand how and why natives in receiving countries react and respond to arriving flows of border crossers. In liberal democracies, understanding public attitudes toward border crossers helps inform immigration policy decisions. How do Americans view border crossers’ reasons for migrating and are Americans more supportive of migrants escaping violence or migrants escaping poverty? Academics, politicians, and media outlets often emphasize distinctions between “real refugees” fleeing their home country for reasons linked to violence and “economic migrants” leaving their home country to pursue financial opportunity. 

In this study, I challenge a commonly held assumption by scholars, policymakers, and media elites and argue that Americans are not fundamentally opposed to economic motivations for migration. To understand why certain motives for migration evoke greater support from natives, I designed a pilot experiment and embedded it in a demographically representative online public opinion survey administered throughout the country (N=202). In a 2 by 2 factorial design, respondents read a fictional news article discussing American immigration and then answered a series of immigration-related questions. In the article, however, I manipulated two features related to a hypothetical migrant families’ reason for migrating to the United States: presence of economic threat in the migrant’s home country and presence of violence threat in the migrant’s home country.

Overall, my findings show that public attitudes toward immigration are sensitive to an immigrants’ perceived reasons for migrating. When migrants are experiencing a clear economic threat in their home country, a native’s immigration attitudes are more favorable—approximately 16 percent more favorable. The project has received additional funding ($3500) to replicate and extend the study on a large, nationwide sample.

A longer description of the project can be found in `project_overview.pdf`. The data cleaning procedures for this project can be found in ` data_cleaning.R`. The analysis for the project can be found in ` data_analysis.Rmd`. 
